what are commands?
A command is an instruction given to our computer by us whatever we want..In Mac os and Linux it is called "terminal" and in windows it is called "command prompt".Commands are always case-sensitive.

Commands are executed in at the commandline followed by pressing the enter key..This command further passes to the shell which reads the command and executes it..
* Shell is a method for the user to interact with the system.....
*The default shell in linux is called "bash shell"(Bourne-Again Shell)
There are 2 types of commands
1.Builtin shell command:They are part of a shell.Each shell has some builtin commands.ex:pwd
2.External/Linux command:Each external command is a separate executable program written in c or other programming language.Examples are ls,cp,man,mkdir,rmdir etc...
In windows->'folder',In linux->'Directory'..
cd-The cd stands for 'change diractory'..It is used to change to the directory you want to work from the present directory.
syntax:cd <directory name>
pwd-pwd stands for 'present working directory'.It displays the current working location or directory of a user.It displays the whole working location starting with a /.It is an builtin function.
mkdir-with mkdir command,you can make your own directory.
syntax:mkdir <directory name>
creating multiple files:mkdir <directory name> <directory name>
rmdir-rmdir command is used to remove directory in your system..
syntax:rmdir<directory name>
ls-the ls command is used to list of a folder...It will list out all the files in a directed path..
ls -a:This command will enlist the whole files in a current directory including all the hidden files.Hidden files starts with . (dot) symbol.
ls -l:It will show the list in a long list format..
ls -hl-It will show the file sizes in human readable format.Reading file sizes is very difficult in terms of bytes..
ls -lhs-If you want to arrange the files in descending order according to their sizes..then you can use ls -lhs command..
ls -d*l-It is used to display only subdirectories..
ls -li-It shows the index number of a file..
ls -r-It shows the list in a reverse order..
ls -R-It will display the content of the sudirectories also..(popular interview question).
ls -Lx-It will group the files with same extensions together in the list..
ls -lt ->(recently used ,recently modified)It sort the list by displaying recently modified files at top..
ls ~ ->It will show the cntents of the home dirctory..
ls ../ ->It will give the contents of home directory...
A path is a unique location to a file or a folder  in a file system of an os.
A path is a combination of / and alpha-numeric characters..
Path---1.Absolute path
       2.Relative path
An absolute path is defined as specifying the loction of a file or a directory from the home diectory(/).
ex:/home/rvv/satya
A relative path is defined as path related to your current directory..It starts at your current directory.It never starts with /.
ex:cd www



